
Project Requirements (From Linked Learning)
---------------------

Project Requirements are how we determine what the business needs and set our project's goals.



There are 4 key questions for requirement management and Ask these at the very beginning of the project and keep asking them every time there is a change in the project.


Requirement management questions:
1. Who are the stakeholders
(To identify stakeholders: ask yourself if it matters for this person to be not happy with the final result of the project ?)

2. What are the needs of the stakeholders ?<-- These are the requirements which need to be clear and documented
(The stakeholders need to explain their expectations and problems)

3. How important is each requirement ?
(Identify the most imp. requiements, then the optional ones and nice to have)

4. How will new issues be dealt with ?
(Issues: Conflicts, changes, surprises and miscommunications)


The 10 steps for requirements management:
1. Identify Standards : 
(ISO 21500 Guidance on Project Management, describes management of Proj and Requirements)

1a. ISO, IEC and IEEE (29148-2018 International std. for Systems and S/w engineering Life Cycle processes Requirements engineering) (MIL-STD-961E - US Miltary Proj Mgmt | Defense and Program-Unique Specifications Format and Content)

1b. Requirements Discovery and Analysis Workshops
(JAD: Joint Application Design, JRP: Joint RequirementsPlanning, JAR: Joint Application Requirements)

2. Develop ELicitation Plan and get it reviewed
(Data Gathering)
2a. Interview with stakeholders. Elicitation plan should identify which stakeholders you plan to talk with and what questions to ask them. Facilitate the group discusssion

2b. By watching people work and documenting what you observe.

2c. Requirements can be elicited by studying process documentation and analyzing business data.
(Std. operating procedures, flow charts and reports)



3. Identify stakeholders

List the stakeholders (Ex. Sponsor, Finance Team, IT Team, Large Customers, Small Customers)
Understand their role.(Ex Advocate/Opponent)
Rate their level of influence/support (Scale of 1 to 10)
Rate their impact (Scale of 1 to 10)

Stakeholder analysis helps in 3 ways:
1. Consider all your stakeholders: Ensures that all stakeholders ar considered and how the project will affect them
2. Develop an ELicitation plan: It can help develop and effective plan for eliciting requirements from all of those stakeholders.
3. Create a comm plan: It can help develop a communications plan so that stakeholders can be kept engaged and informed as the project moves forward.


4. Gather Requirements
Ask questions like: What will determine this project's success ?
Online surveys 

4.a Capture the exact words, to avoid biasing
4.b Ask followup questions till its clear
4.c Take and summarize notes
4.d Be ready for changes


5. Analyze Requirements
Document the attributes
10 Attributes:
- Absolute Reference (This is the identification no. for the requirement. Assigning a no. makes it easier to track requirements over time even if the name or the description changes)
- Complexity (is the level of difficulty for addressing the requirement, rate it as easy,med,hard or on a scale of 1 to 10, or in terms of no. of hours required)
- Risk (Level of uncertainity)
- Author (Who elicited the requirement)
- Source (Where did the  info about the requirement come from)
- Ownership (Person responsible for addressing the requirement)
- Stability (Status of requirement. Does it need modification or is it well defined ?)
- Urgency (Does the requirement need to be addressed right away or is it something that can wait)
- Priority (Level of importance, in relation to the entire project. Necessary/nicetohave/desired)
- State (Status of requirement approval)


6. Prioritize requirements
- look for potential conflicts
- ensure all requirements are unique
- review requirement complexities

Level of importance or requirements:
- Necessary
- OPtional

Rank importance on a scale of 1 to 10.
May require voting for prioritization.
Document the requirement priotities.
Helps in identifying in-scope items and the resources required to achieve the project goals.


7. Create Use Cases
It tells the story how the solution shoud work once complete. It provides a step by step explaination of a process and what everyone involved needs to do along the way. A single use case couldnprovide the context to support many diff requirements.Use cases enhances requirements by providing the context to help everyone understand a process.

Ters in use case:
Actors- People and systems included in a use case
Actions or Events - Steps in completing a use case

Use a SwimLane diagram (its like a flowchart) which shows which actors need to do complete which step.
Or use Unified Modelling Language (UML)



8. Document Requirements
(Scope document)
Requirement report has:
- Executive Summary
- Background Info, to explain why th eproj is imp for the business
- Stakeholder list

_ section to discuss the : Project Goals, Scope (in and out scope item's descriptions), Risks, Interdependencies

The key to documenting the project requirements is to describe what you want the solution to do, without explaining how to do it. 

Three things for writing requirements:
- Requirements should be Clear amd Specific
- Requirements should be Thoroughly detailed 
- Requirements should be Testable, to check if the requirement is met when the project is complete


Version control process for requirements should be there.




9. Approve Requirements
By getting the requirements approved, then we can ceate a plan and start allocating resources.
Two steps for spproval:
A. Stakeholder Review: Give the stakeholders a chance to review our docs to ensure that their requirements were captured accurately.
B. Management Approval: To lockdown the requirements and move forward

Deliver final report once the stakeholder review is done.



10. Manage change requirements
Approved requirements can still change. TRack projects with a versioning process.
10.a Develop a process to submit change requests. (Change Denied/Approved should be communicated)
10.b Number each version of change request (and a change log)
10.c Always work from most current version



